[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Welcome.
Thank you for choosing this--
like the airlines, you know.
I know you have many choices.
Thank you for choosing
Mabel Katz, Ho'Oponopono.
So how many of you know
about Ho'Oponopono?
This will be a
different presentation.
I have two children's books.
And for me, being able to raise
happy kids is very important.
But today we are going to try to
raise a happy kid inside of us.
So I'm going to be basing
a lot in this book,
and I will be telling you about.
They are both based
on Ho'Oponopono.
But this kind of became this.
It's kind of the same
thing, but in stories.
So my children's books are
for young children and adult
children too.
Because it's about
remembering who we really are.
So I want you to be
hopefully it will work.
Yes.
This is my first
time handling a Mac.
You Mac people.
OK.
So today is not the
day after yesterday.
It is the day before tomorrow.
You know that every moment is
a new start, a your beginning.
You know, every decision, we are
taking decisions all the time.
And in every moment you
are creating your life.
You are creating your destiny.
You actually can
change your destiny.
How many of you think,
oh, this is my luck?
This is the way it is.
Yes?
But really, it all depends.
You can change your
destiny, because you decided
to let go instead of reacting.
So it's moment by moment.
But most of the time, the
choices that we are making
are at the subconscious level.
We don't even know
we are choosing.
We don't do it consciously.
So that's why it's so, so
important to become children
again, to be able to see
life like children see,
no differences or anything.
We need to go back to
thinking like children again.
Worry less, know that
we have everything.
Yesterday we had a panel
in the Spanish section.
And somebody asked
about anxiety.
And I said, that's
lack of trust.
We need to trust.
And we all go
through the anxiety,
or we go a lot of to the past,
depression, and all that stuff,
because we don't want to let go.
Today we are going to talk a
little bit about forgiveness
too, because that is
also living in the past.
So our job is to be present,
to be more conscious,
to make better
decisions, because that's
when our life changes.
And really it is about that.
So parachutes work
only when you are open.
So are you willing
to open your mind?
It's an hour and
a half this, yes?
>> Yes.
>> Yes, OK.
So are you willing
for the following 90
minutes, are you willing
to open your mind?
Because I'm going to tell
you very weird stuff.
Yeah?
Are you willing?
Could you tell the
person next to you,
I'm willing to open my
mind for 90 minutes.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> So I will tell you
these weird stories,
because it's what
changed my life.
This is what really,
really changed my life.
That's why the
easiest way to grow.
I put all the pictures that
now I'm going to show you,
they are all stories.
We are stories that I heard
from my teacher, Dr. Ihaleakala,
or even from my own students.
I still hear weird stories
from my young students.
I don't know if you
know, but I used
to be an accountant, a
tax senior accountant.
And I'm still very intellectual.
No, it's not like--
but because I started
believing in these weird things
is that my life changed.
So the first time that Dr.
Ihaleakala, my teacher,
came to Los Angeles to
teach and stayed at my home,
he told me that my
washing machine asked him,
are you the Ho'Oponopono guy.
I prepared you.
Yeah, I told you.
So can you imagine
that a washing machine
knew that the Ho'Oponopono
guy was coming?
And we think we are superior
to a washing machine,
or that we know.
And right now, after all these
years, I have so many things
to tell, in my
spiritual journeys,
when we go with people.
We just came back
from Avalon, and it's
been an amazing experience.
And for me to start believing
in the magic, but really
the world is magic.
And we have to
connect with that.
It's very, very important,
especially in the times
that we are living, where all
these changes are happening.
And we need to start
going with the flow,
instead of going against the
flow, staying in the box,
because things are
like this, and this
is the way they have to work.
So another story that Dr.
Ihaleakala told me that once he
slept in a library at a house.
And he couldn't sleep
the whole night,
because the authors were
discussing the books,
and ideas and things.
So can you imagine
something like that?
Crazy.
Well, this represents
different things.
Morrnah, Morrnah
Simeona was the one
that updated the Ho'Oponopono
for the modern times.
She was a healer.
She spoke to plants.
Yeah?
So if she had somebody
with a problem,
she would talk to the plants.
And the plants will
raise their hand.
And they say, we
can help with that.
Yeah, so yesterday we were also
discussing about going back
to our ancestors.
You know, we got educated.
What a pity, education.
So now we rely on a part of
us that doesn't know anything.
It doesn't matter
how many titles.
But this also represents
a student of mine
that was an accountant, like me.
And she also could talk to
washing machines and things
like that.
So one day she came to the
training, and she said,
Mabel I quit my job.
I'm going to open a flower shop.
And I said,
Christine, but do you
know anything about flowers?
And she said, no,
but I just know
I need to open a flower shop.
So the following
training she comes.
And she says, I opened
the flower shop.
And what happened is that when
I go to the flower market,
I go with a list of the
flowers that I need.
If I have a party and I have
to prepare the centerpieces,
or if somebody order.
But I go and I say,
who's coming with me?
And she can see the
flowers raising their hand.
So she says,
sometimes some flowers
that I don't have on my
list also raise their hand.
But I trust and I buy them.
It's a Sunday, and I'm
coming to the shop.
And I'm pulling the key.
And I hear the phone ringing.
And when I pick up the phone,
they order those flowers.
OK, so how many
of you are waiting
to open your own-- to
follow your dreams,
to become independent, because
you are missing something?
You are missing education,
or you don't have the money.
But amazing things
happening when you trust.
So when you stop the worrying,
instead of being in the future,
you come back to present.
When you let go of the
past, when you forgive, yes?
But you have to be
conscious enough
to realize you are in the
past, or you are in the future.
So one day Ihaleakala
heard a noise.
So he tuned in, like
you used to say.
And he saw God in
the rocking chair.
And he asked God,
what are you doing?
And God said, oh, I
have so much time.
Because nobody talks to me.
He said, they'd rather
talk to their neighbor,
their psychology, but
nobody talks to me.
So I keep creating
more galaxies,
and I have so much time.
So talk to God.
He's always there to listen.
Whatever you understand by God,
let me explain what I call God,
and when I found it.
Because I heard all these
stories, one day I said,
you know what?
I'm going to let go and trust.
I mean what do I have to lose?
I said, I'm going
to let go and trust.
So that let go and trust took
me to start seeing results.
Things started happening.
I mean, can you imagine
from a tax accountant
to traveling the world
with this message?
And I didn't do it on my own.
I have help.
One day, somebody asked
me if I had a marketing
department, somebody knocking
at doors for me, opening doors?
And that day I started thinking.
And I said, no, I don't
have a marketing department.
And I realized that my marketing
department is up there.
So how do I receives from
the beginning my new career?
It's all managed by emails.
I just receive emails
with invitations.
I just receive
emails with offers
to buy the copyrights
of my books.
And I'm a published author.
So it doesn't make sense, and
so it's not about knowing.
It's not about education.
It's not about the money.
It's about opening our
mind, trusting, living more
in the present,
being more conscious.
This one is crazy, crazy.
But now that I've
been in Avalon,
I know these creatures
really exist.
So Morrnah Simeona
prepared two individuals.
One was Dr. Ihaleakala
to give this seminars.
Another was a lady that
used to meditate with her.
Even when they got by
inspiration, channelled
the new Ho'Oponopono
for the modern times,
she helped Morrnah also
with the meditations.
And it was so amazing when
they meditated together.
Because Ihaleakala
would say, I see these.
And she would say, I see it too.
He would say, could you
check if we can ask this?
And she would say, I see a
check-mark, or I see a yes.
And Ihaleakala used to
consult a lot with her.
And one day I said,
did she ever tell you
that you heard incorrectly?
She said no, but if I
had somebody to check,
I just want to be sure.
So one day she calls, and
she says, could you check?
Because I see my
windows are rattling.
I don't know what's going on.
And so he meditated and
when he came back, he says,
did you cut some trees today?
And she said, yeah, we cut
some trees in the property.
He said, well, they
are there fairies
knocking at your window.
They are very mad, because
you left them without a house.
So I was in Avalon.
In Avalon, they said,
there is a lot of magic.
I'm a tax senior accountant
connecting with magic?
I mean, crazy.
But it was magical.
It was amazing.
Not only the magic part, but
everything that happened there,
when you open up.
So one day we had a
lot of confirmation
in this spiritual retreat
like, for example,
in Mount Shasta
a student of mine
got confirmation that
Ho'Oponopono really
comes from other galaxies.
That's what Ihaleakala
used to say.
And one day I decided
to erase that.
And I put, it comes from
the original Hawaiians
that inhabited Hawaii.
But it was true.
We got confirmation of that.
And then we got confirmation
about when you do Ho'Oponopono,
the universe does it for you.
Our part is so easy.
It is same thing here.
It is stopping the intellect,
and then it's giving permission
to a part of you that knows.
I never told you what
I call, God, Yes?
Rewind.
OK.
So when I started,
I was telling you.
When I started letting
go and trusting,
things started
happening to me, instead
of me pushing like always.
And I said, I'm not alone.
So I realized that we all
have a part of us that knows.
But again, we are always
listening to the intellect.
Bruce Lipton says, we
walk with two antennas.
And everybody-- Bruce
Lipton, Gregg Braden,
Joe Dispenza; I mean
everybody, well yesterday Papa
Jaime, and everybody; we are
all saying the same thing.
The problems are in
the subconscious mind.
Don't look any farther.
They are closer than
your own breath.
By like I always say, there are
different paths, different ways
to erase, to clean
the subconscious mind.
But I found the easiest way.
You're not going to
find easier than this.
And this is working
directly with God.
That is the part of you that
knows, it's the other antenna.
You have to be able to shut down
this one to be able to listen.
You have to be willing to be
more in silence, to listen.
You have to be willing to
trust more, to let go more.
And then you won't
believe your life.
Now I want you to know, I have
challenges, I have problems.
The universe is very sure
to give me opportunities.
They you teach what
you need to learn.
So it's not like my life is,
ah, I don't have any problems.
Do Ho'Oponopono.
No.
The idea is we are going to
have the problems anyway.
So how can we go easier?
How can we look at problems,
and put a distance,
and realize we are
not the problem.
We are identifying with all
that, and we are not that.
So this Ho'Oponopono that
could be as easy as thank you,
I love you, it is about
coming back to present.
It's about asking for help.
When are we going to realize
we cannot do it alone?
Look what we created,
because we thought we knew.
So it's about asking for help,
and allowing for that help
to come to you.
I don't know how many of
you read my first book,
"The Easiest Way."
But in my first book, I
tell the story of creation
that Ihaleakala told me.
That when God put out Adam
and Eve, God told them,
I can provide you with
anything you need.
You don't need to
worry about anything.
I can provide you with
everything you need.
But he gave them free choice.
It was a gift And it was in
the form of the apple tree.
And God said, you don't need it.
This is called thinking.
You don't need it.
I can provide you with
anything you need.
But we decided to think.
We are still thinking.
We are still warring.
We are still coping,
manipulating.
And we don't realize that
the only way is to let go.
The only way is
to allow God, that
is the only one that can
erase the subconscious mind.
So Ho'Oponopono, I
found Ho'Oponopono,
and I love it, because it's
about 100% responsibility.
There is no guilt. So what does
it mean to be 100% responsible?
I'm responsible for
the memories that
are playing in my
subconscious mind that
show up in the monitor.
That's why we keep
repeating things too,
because until we let go,
they're not going to be erased.
And we will keep
replaying, so important,
the 100% responsibility.
I wanted you to know, we have
a fun tool in Ho'Oponopono.
We have many, many.
A lot of people think
that Ho'Oponopono is,
I'm sorry, please forgive me.
Thank you, and I love you.
But let's say that that's one
tool that Joe Vitale created,
when he wrote the
"Zero Limits" book.
But that's not what I learned.
That's not what I
practice, because actually
and I'm going to
explain this more.
But actually the
thank you and the I
love you replace
what Ho'Oponopono is.
I'm sorry.
Please forgive me,
for whatever is in me.
We become children again.
Yeah, we are not guilty.
But what is it in me?
I don't know.
But I'm giving
permission to be erased.
So I was telling you, in
Avalon we got confirmation.
Actually somebody
saw how this fun tool
that we use that
is called flypaper,
she had in a meditation this
experience of people wanting
to come into this place.
But they would bounce and drop.
And it was like when you
drive, and on the windshield
the mosquitoes, or the
flies, or something.
So she was shocked by it.
She didn't know
what was going on.
And the voice said--
it has the same effect.
It was the same as the flypaper.
So some people in the
trainings had that experience
that my student in
Mount Shasta had,
where he said they
put him in a blender,
and he could see things
flying out of his body.
And some people have experience
even in the seminars.
And that confirmed,
because he asked.
He says, what do I do here?
And they say, no, no.
Here you don't do anything.
We do it for you.
So can you imagine that
we have all this help,
but because we
don't ask, we end up
going again replaying the
thinking and the worrying.
But that's really how it works.
Because when he went
into this meditation,
they were taking him
to different rooms.
And he said, but I
practice Ho'Oponopono.
So they told him, oh, you
Come this way, and they
put them in their blender.
So anyway one day, I told that
story to my son that is here
today.
And he looked at me with
kind of a weird face,
and he says, I think mom,
this is just too much for me.
So this was my response to him.
I said, the thing that I
cannot see or I can not hear,
by considering opening my
mind that maybe exists,
it changed my life.
So that's why I tell
you, for me the most
important and the change was
about that, opening my mind.
Opening my mind, knowing
that the help is there,
because I'm going to start
talking to you about trusting
something that you cannot
see, you cannot hear,
you cannot feel.
But it's always there for us.
OK.
So this is a poem that
is called "Letting Go."
It says, "Giving up
is merely quitting.
Letting go is sweet release.
Giving up is cries of anguish.
Letting go is perfect peace.
Giving up is hard and heavy.
Letting go is loose and light.
Giving up is simply failure.
Letting go, success in sight.
Giving up is very human.
Letting go is most divine.
Giving up is death at sundown.
Letting go, the rising sun.
Giving up is 'There, It's over.'
Letting go, 'I've just begun.'"
So every time I let
go, I go to zero,
and that's where everything
that we are looking for is.
That's what inspiration is.
Because if I'm thinking,
inspiration cannot come
in my life.
If I'm worrying, inspiration
cannot come in my life.
So I have to be able
to moment by moment,
take me back to zero.
So I you notice I'm engaging,
because I still engage.
I still blame.
I still complain, like you.
But the thing is, I'm
conscious I'm doing it.
So I go back to this
letting go as soon as I can.
Keep our mouth shut, and thank
you, thank you, thank you,
thank you, thank you.
OK.
Because that's where you
have a possibility for things
to change.
Einstein said, you know,
keep doing the same thing
and expecting different
results, insanity.
And that's, yeah we
are kind of insane.
But, yes, we let go.
And many of us have
plenty to let go.
If you think about it,
even blaming yourself.
Complaining of the
circumstances and events,
always thinking that
there is something
out there that that's
why we are not happy.
That's why we are not at peace.
Justifying ourself for
the lack of results,
always, well it was
somebody's fault,
or this or this
happened, or the storm.
Or having to defend
your position,
I think when you really
believe in yourself,
you don't have to
defend anything.
So one of the most
important messages or advice
that I received
from Dr. Ihaleakala,
was that I had to be
myself when I presented.
I wanted to go and take classes,
if I was a tax accountant.
So I said, OK, if
I'm going to teach,
I have to go and take classes.
And he said, no, that will
take all your naturality.
All you have to be is yourself.
And could you tell the
person next to you,
all you have to be is yourself?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> And if you can,
write it down too.
It's very, very, very
important just to be yourself.
What a concept.
We are never ourselves.
We have always been whatever
other people want from us,
expectations.
We are always looking
for acceptance outside
of ourselves.
And even when we get
it, we are not happy.
So my mother used
to come to visit,
and she used to tell me,
look at the house you have,
and brand new cars, and
the husband that loves you,
and two kids that are
beautiful and healthy.
And she would say,
what's your problem?
And I didn't know
what to answer,
because I didn't know
what my problem was.
I didn't have it clear.
She said, what's your problem?
I was not happy.
And so at one point, I realized
it wasn't in the cards.
It wasn't in the house.
Because it was that
search that never ends.
Because we will never find it.
The other thing that happened
is that my mother passed away.
I had a lot of revelations
and insights because of that.
It was an amazing gift,
and experience, and wisdom
from my mother's death.
But one of the things I realized
because we cremated her,
and when we went
in Argentina to do
what she asked for us, to
spread the ashes, I realized.
I said, she went with nothing.
That is an important concept.
We only take our experiences,
and that's what we came from,
the experience,
not to accumulate.
So that is a very
important concept.
Sometimes I said that we
should take that really
as a big teacher, first of all,
not to be afraid, because there
is nothing to be afraid.
So realizing that we are not
this, that this is temporary.
This is a suit.
We need it to come here.
And being able to enjoy life
more, to be more present.
We are never present.
So I think that we are more
afraid of actually enjoying
life, than from death.
But that's a good thing, because
sometimes you have to think.
When you have a problem,
sometimes you have to think,
if I knew I would leave today.
This would be so important.
Or if I knew this
person would go today,
would I be still
mad at this person?
And sometimes you have to take
yourself out of the situation.
Be the observer.
That's who we are.
That's our real
identity, the observer.
OK?
So we all play games too.
We all play games, and what
happened with the games
that we play that we don't
realize they are games,
and we are addicted.
Sometimes we start these games.
And sometimes
other people start.
But this also takes us from
out of zero, of present.
We are not aligned.
We are not in balance anymore.
And definitely it
takes away peace.
And all we are
looking for is peace.
All we are looking
for is happiness.
The abundance comes,
it will be added.
We always put abundance,
wealth, the money first.
But it's actually
the other way around.
You become a
magnet, when you let
go, when you'll be
leaving yourself,
when you're not attached, when
you don't have expectations.
So some of the games that
we play, sometimes we
play that I deserve,
entitlement, so
sometimes being
conscious of this.
I don't know you guys.
But in Argentina, when I was
little and we were playing,
we would say, I
don't play anymore.
And we would leave.
Yeah, it didn't work.
So we would say, I
don't play anymore.
Or when you were losing
with somebody, you say,
I don't play anymore.
So why don't we do it now?
Why don't we realize that we
play these games, sometimes
with ourselves, sometimes in
our romantic relationships,
and sometimes in
business relationships?
I deserve, or I must be
seen, I'm superwoman.
But I know what's
going on inside of me
to be that superwoman,
for people to see me.
So also why?
Why am I doing it?
Very, very important.
OK.
And I am better than, yeah.
The thing is we are not happy.
First of all, we have
to race, increase
the effects of other people.
But at the end, even if we
confirm that we are better,
we are not happy.
And again, we are not
receiving the results
that we are looking for.
Or I'm worse than, yeah, or I'm
a victim, or things like that.
So if you realize you are
playing that, you can just say,
I'm not playing anymore.
So you become a
child, and you realize
that doesn't work for you.
And you let go.
So it is about letting go.
Ho'Oponopono is about
letting go, and letting God.
No matter what you
understand by God, but let's
call it a more intelligent mind
than yours, a mind that thought
of oceans, or mountains, or
rivers, or the human body.
What about that?
How about that?
So there is a more
intelligent mind than ours
that has all the solutions
to all our problem.
But it's waiting to see
if we give permission,
if we let them.
So you decide.
Because we go through life.
I know I have to remove
it, but it hurts.
Just remove move
it, and that's it.
It's gone.
So you're going
to feel the pain.
Have you heard that already
I'm sure, pain is inevitable.
Suffering is optional.
So the suffering, how many of
us have relationships to let
go, things that don't work
in our life, and we keep--
because we don't
trust ourself, or we
engage with fear, or things like
that; so very, very important
that you decide that
you are ready to let go.
So like I said
before, Ho'Oponopono
is I'm sorry, please
forgive me for whatever
is in me that created this.
When I learned Ho'Oponopono,
the thank you and I
love you didn't exist.
We had a very long
phrase to repeat.
The most important
thing in Ho'Oponopono
is how to do it all the time,
because the memories play
24 hours a day.
So that's what we
do in the seminar,
to train the subconscious
mind to do it.
In open Ho'Oponopono,
the subconscious mind
is your inner child.
But it's not your inner
child, when you were little
and the things that they
did to you in this lifetime.
Because that subconscious
mind comes with you
from other lifetimes.
And all the memories
that accumulate,
most of our problems come
from other lifetimes.
They have nothing to do
with what is happening now.
But we react, we engage.
Thinking that is the other
person or the situation,
and it's never that.
So who's going to
take responsibility?
Who's going to
turn on the light?
And when we do it, it gets
you away from everybody.
Because I don't know
if you saw that video
that goes in YouTube about DNA.
We end up all being cousins.
Yeah, we are all family.
And that's also the difference
between spirituality
and religion.
I don't have anything
against religion,
and I always tell
people If you find
the peace and the
happiness there,
you have to keep with religion.
But that your religious
doesn't mean that you trust,
that you believe.
And I was told that
by religious people.
They said, we have religion,
but today you gave us
a lesson about trusting.
Sometimes we do it
for the wrong reason--
the family, what other people
will say, to be accepted,
not to go to hell.
Who knows?
But maybe they are not
for the right reasons,
so always the why,
why we do things.
If you know why you do
it, there will be things
that maybe you don't like.
So spirituality
goes beyond that.
It gives the power back to us.
There is nobody on earth
that knows, nobody,
but you have the
power to connect
with all the wisdom
of the universe,
again with the other antenna.
You can work with
divinity directly.
You don't need intermediaries,
no third parties.
So when I learned
Ho'Oponopono, cleaning,
because we talk about
cleaning, Ho'Oponopono,
erasing these memories;
it was 200,100,000 pillar
of the peace of I, of
myself, my family, relatives,
and ancestors.
That was Ho'Oponopono
when I learned it.
And then we had to do a
mental list of the things
that we thought we
were cleaning with.
And we would spend
in the seminar
45 minutes, an hour, people
writing all their boyfriends,
and all the addresses, where
I live, and things like that.
And then we realized that
God knows everything.
He doesn't need any list.
It's our intellect
that needs the list.
But God knows when we
are ready to let go,
knows why we have the
problems that we have,
and he has the solutions.
It's only waiting.
We used to have to say
200,100,000 pillar of the peace
of I, and made
mental list, whatever
came to mind in that moment.
And when I went blank, I
had to start all over again.
200,100,000 pillar
of the peace of I,
of myself, my family,
relatives, and ancestors.
And we would repeat
that 24 hours.
Our subconscious
mind never sleeps.
So that's why we
want to train it,
to clean like we say,
during the night,
when the intellect gets tired.
OK.
So we realized God
knew everything.
We realized he
didn't need any list.
And one day doctor
Ihaleakala heard
the boy said, just tell
them to say thank you.
I know what they mean.
And that's when a lot
of very easy tools
came, because we
have many, plenty.
One day I ask Ihaleakala,
why so many tools?
Why not just thank
you and I love you?
And his response
was, different taste.
We have for all tastes.
So the thank you, replace the
I'm sorry, please forgive me.
God already knows
what we are doing.
We are giving
permission to be raised.
We are giving permission
for [INAUDIBLE]..
And all I have to say is thank
you, thank you, thank you,
thank you, thank you,
thank you, thank you;
instead of engaging
with the stories,
because we keep telling
ourselves stories.
We are creating it,
and we are buying it.
So first of all,
I already told you
about the difference or not.
I spoke a little bit about
guilt versus responsibility.
I felt free for the
first time in my life,
when I realized I
was 100% responsible.
Because my thought was,
oh, I am 100% responsible.
So it means I created it.
I said, if I created
it, I can change it.
Otherwise you are
giving your power away,
you are waiting always,
for other people to change.
And I'm still doing it.
I have areas of my
life that I am still
waiting for people to change.
But guilt is not a relief.
It's not a nice feeling.
And you are hurting yourself.
It's one of of the worst
feelings you can have, guilt.
And it's one day you have to
get to the point that says,
I love myself too much.
I'm not going to
hurt myself anymore.
So you're going to do things
that really work for you.
One thing that I learned
with Ho'Oponopono
was just to put
myself first, instead
of pleasing other people.
Because if you do it
and you are not happy,
if you are sacrificing, if
it doesn't work for you;
it will not work for them.
And everybody feels that.
So it doesn't work.
So again, thank you, I love
you, came to replace that.
So what we are doing
in Ho'Oponopono,
we are taking responsibility.
I'm sorry for whatever is in me.
How many of you know
the work of Dr. Emoto?
The Japanese doctor
that did the whole study
of the effect of our
thoughts in the water.
Yeah, we are mostly water.
So the worst thing
that we can do
is think bad about
ourselves, and feeling
we don't deserve it, or
feeling we are not good enough.
So the left one,
just in case there
is somebody that has
never seen these,
is water seen
through a microscope,
when we say to the water, I
hate you, or you are stupid,
you are bad.
And the other one is
when you say thank you,
or you say I love you.
He studies with rice,
and a lot of people
are doing it now, with
kids in the schools.
So he put three containers
with white rice.
And he put in one,
he put I love you.
The other one they put--
I don't know-- I hate
you or you are stupid.
And the other one they ignore.
So after-- I don't know if it
was after 30 days or something
like that, and the study
is they show it in YouTube.
So after a certain time, the
one that they put I love you,
stay white.
The rice was OK.
It didn't smell, nothing.
The one that they put I hate
you, it turned it rotten.
And the one that they
ignore, worms grew from it.
So these are things that you
can do at home too, and try it
if you don't believe me.
So I would like to show
you a video from IKEA.
I don't know if
you've seen this.
So I would like to share
this, for you to see
the power of our thoughts.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Can you all read or do
you want me to read?
At IKEA we believe.
So they went the extra mile
to spray some positivity.
So they pick two plants
from their own store.
They place it at
[INAUDIBLE] in a school.
The two of them, the
same, at the same time.
And they ask the students to
record messages to the plants.
To one plant they
would say nice things.
And the other one they bully.
>> (ON VIDEO) Seeing you
blossom makes me happy.
>> (ON VIDEO) You're making
a difference in the world.
>> (ON VIDEO) You are beautiful.
>> (ON VIDEO) I brought
them here to see the plant.
>> It says, I came here to
watch that plant being bullied.
This is not normal.
So the students were
recording the messages.
>> (ON VIDEO) I think it's
an excellent project to have
something tangible that they can
actually physically be a part
of is, I think, going
to very powerful.
>> So a powerful experiment
for the kids to see.
So after 30 days, the
results spoke for themselves.
>> (ON VIDEO) I started noticing
that the one that was being
bullied started--
>> Look what happened to the
plant that was bullied 30 days
later.
>> (ON VIDEO) While the plant
that was being complimented,
it was flourishing
and beautiful.
It's raised the
profile massively
of different forms of
bullying on the effects
that bullying can
have on people.
>> We aim to create happier
communities for a better
everyday with this initiative.
And share it with the world.
So that's what our
power is, our thoughts.
It says if affected a
plant, it definitely
can effect other people.
And sometimes it's
only thinking about it.
You don't even have to say
it, just thinking about it.
So I'll show you this, just to
show you how powerful we are,
and why a simple thank you or
a simple I love you could work,
and why it's what I call it the
easiest way, if we practice it.
It's not about knowing it.
You have to practice, especially
when the problems come.
The problems are
not the problem.
Our reaction to the
problem is the problem.
So if you choose to do
this, it's about letting go,
letting go of the reaction,
letting go of the perception.
Remember, we don't see the
same thing that others see,
because we all come with our own
memories, and our own programs.
So we don't see the same thing.
We don't understand how
other people cannot see it.
But it's because they
have different programs.
Now that we work
with computers, we
understand, different programs.
And all that is in
our subconscious mind.
So very important to
realize how powerful we are,
and this is one of my favorites.
This represents Morrnah,
also Ihaleakala's teacher.
When she was little, she was
afraid to cross the street.
So she would ask for help.
And she would see a huge
hand coming from heaven
and crossing her.
Now I have to tell
you, I have students,
many students in their world
that have seen that hand too.
And many students that they
see things that I cannot see,
or I see them in
a different way.
I have a certain perception,
but I cannot see how they see.
And lately I realize that
Ihaleakala always told me,
you don't want to see.
It's really scary.
And now when I have all
these people writing me,
because it's like these
people are coming out more.
These people never shared
what they could see, or hear,
or what they knew; because they
were afraid to be burned again.
Or they were afraid
that they would
be put in a mental hospital.
Ihaleakala always told
me, I could have ended up
in a mental hospital.
And he would say,
could we stop the radio
for five minutes, or the movie?
And he would hear
the voice say, no.
So now when people tell me
what happens in my seminars,
I say, thank god I don't see.
Because they are great
things that are happening,
but they are very distracted.
So I remember now that
when we did the training
with Ihaleakala, every 20
minutes he would take a break.
He would say, break.
And everybody would look at me
like, we just came from break.
But yeah, I realize it was
overwhelming to give a class
with those things happening.
So what do we do
with Ho'Oponopono?
We come out of mind
and we take control.
So how many of you, when
I say let go, say let go.
No?
I learned.
Somebody told me, use your head.
Or they said, you
are not worried?
You are irresponsible.
They're wrong messages.
So one day I told my son,
I said, life could be easy.
And he looked at me
and he said, that's
not what you used to tell me.
And I say, I know.
But now I know a
little bit better.
So it could be as
hard, or as difficult,
or as easy, or as we make it.
We make our life.
It's not the President.
It's not your neighbor.
It's not your partner.
It's us.
And when you do that,
when you realize that,
you set yourself free.
So how do we con our minds?
And we are going to see now.
But just realize
that when you talk
about how bad your
reality is, you attract
more of what you don't like.
Where do we put our energy?
Where do we put our attention?
Because we are like cameras.
So whatever we focus on, that's
what we get, realizing that.
And maybe in that moment,
I need to breathe.
I need to go and hug
a tree, go for a walk.
But no, we are trying not
to always resolve things,
and again, from intellect.
The intellect knows how
to create a problem.
It doesn't know how
to find a solution.
The solutions always
come from inspiration;
when you're taking the shower,
you're connecting with nature.
So when you are against
something or somebody,
it's like, wow, have you
noticed that those days that you
don't sleep well, it looks like
nobody slept well that day.
Everything is against you.
Nothing works.
So it could be that it's us.
When you are worried
about something,
you attract more of that.
You attract more worry.
Things get worse.
And you have to
know that everything
will pass, everything.
So in that moment, it's
changing the channel.
In the moment, realizing you've
been listening to the channel
that it is about luck,
about not enough,
about injustice, and many other
things, or victimhood even.
So one day you have
to wake up and realize
who you are spending
your time with,
what are you talking about.
Because time is the most
precious thing we have here.
It's not about the money.
It's about how we invest
our time, or how what we do,
do we do what we love?
Very important, for
me that's the basic.
And we are going to
work on that today.
Because for me a
perfect world is one
that we all do what
we love, instead of
because of my career, because
my mom told me, because my luck.
So each choice
has a consequence.
And not choosing an is a choice.
Like I said, we are
choosing all the time.
So if you are not
doing it consciously,
you are still choosing.
You are choosing for
the subconscious mind
to keep replaying, and playing
the same theme, choosing
the same thing.
You can always
choose your attitude.
When you change your
attitude, that's it.
That's it.
So we need to start practicing.
Like I said, it's
not about knowing,
but I need to practice.
So like I said before,
it's changing the station.
We have different stations here.
We have a choice of
changing stations.
And it could be in the moment
that is I'm changing station.
This one is not working for me.
And so knowing
that we can change
that emotional vibration,
because we are energy,
so we attract based
on our energy.
That's why if we slept bad, it
looks like everybody slept bad
that day.
Because we are responsible
of what we attract.
So we are going to go
into this in a minute.
But I want to show you
this emotional awareness.
It's not the best picture.
But what energy are you at?
You have to pretend or to
expect different results.
So this is an amazing chart.
What it shows, shame is
the lowest vibration, a 20,
guilt 30, apathy 50,
grief 75, fear 75.
Yet pride, anger,
desire are the lowest.
But look how, when you go to
neutrality, you are just OK.
Already you are OK.
So neutrality, that's
what Ho'Oponopono does.
It brings us to this
balance, to this alignment.
Be one with God, not engaging.
So as soon as you go to neutral,
you are in the positive.
As soon as you are willing
to take responsibility,
and you say, oh,
or maybe it could
be that it's easier
than what I thought.
Or maybe I'm not alone,
my willingness to believe,
my willingness to let
go, my willingness to let
go of being right or
having the last word that
doesn't bring
peace or happiness,
even when I achieve it.
Look at acceptance,
accepting that everything
is perfect the way it is.
Accepting, accepting
that God knows better
than us, that we don't know what
is right, becoming more humble.
So just accepting, it puts us.
And well then you
have alignment,
we are just not here anymore.
We are light.
We disappear.
But look at peace, 600,
just to be at peace.
And that's what
Ho'Oponopono can do for you.
You might have a lot
of problems around you,
but you're at peace.
You check with yourself, and
a lot of things happening,
it's you're in the
eye of the hurricane.
So you see it's happening,
but you are safe here.
The thing is we go into,
because we want analyze,
we want to understand, and
then we get into trouble.
So when you forgive,
so if we don't forgive,
we are hurting ourself.
Have you heard that
of not forgiving
is about taking the poison,
expecting the other one to die?
You take it, and say, what
two years, and still alive?
What happened?
But those two years you
hurt yourself, really.
So again, and you were
living in the past.
So when you forgive,
it's a gift to yourself.
And I'm going to
tell you something,
what I learned in
Ho'Oponopono, it's
not about talking to anybody.
It's forgiving in your heart.
It's working on you.
It's not about
having to go and tell
the person you forgive them.
It's about forgiving inside
of you, that you don't hurt.
And how do I know if I forgive?
Is I think of that person, and
I just don't have that reaction
anymore.
So I'm free from that reaction.
That doesn't mean I forgot.
Because some people say, no, no.
I need to-- no, it's
maybe I didn't forget,
but I don't have that reaction,
when I think of that person
or what they did to me,
or things like that.
So I can set myself free, and
I can come back to present.
And I can open doors,
because actually forgiveness
opens doors.
So forgiveness is like
the oil to a machine.
It makes the wheels move.
Otherwise we are stuck.
It's like the law of gravity.
Its power is invisible, but
its effect is extraordinary.
So the forgiveness is
included in the Ho'Oponopono.
But I would like to ask
you to close your eyes.
And we take a deep breath.
Many times we tell ourselves,
but I cannot forgive.
To forgive takes strength,
real strength, real strength
of mind, real strength
of mind and heart
to put peace above
your anger, your upset.
It doesn't condoning
what they did.
It means accepting that they,
just like you, are human.
And they make mistakes too.
You can forgive.
It is your divine
nature to forgive.
Because when truly humble,
we realize we are united.
And in not knowing what to
do, we do the best we can.
None of us are blameless.
When we forgive another,
we only set the other,
but ourself free.
It's is a win-win situation.
Sometimes we tell ourselves,
but they don't deserve it.
Well, the sun
shines on everyone.
It doesn't decide who deserves
its light, and who doesn't.
True love is unconditional.
And until we ourselves
have attained perfection,
who are we to judge others?
Sometimes we have
this voice that says,
but they are not sorry.
Some people believe that if
a person is not remorseful,
they cannot be forgiven.
This is not true.
The transformative,
the powerful point
here is to forgive anyway, to
love anyway, to be kind anyway.
Choose forgiveness
over being right,
and inner peace will
curl up in your lap.
Anger is not a bad thing.
Anger is energy, pure energy.
When anger arises, be aware of
it, and see a miracle happen.
When anger arises,
be aware of it.
And if you are aware,
you will be surprised,
maybe the greatest
surprise in your life.
As you become aware,
anger disappears.
Anger is transformed.
Anger becomes pure energy.
Anger becomes
compassion, forgiveness.
It becomes love.
So there is no need
for anybody to suffer.
Just be aware.
Let awareness be there.
Anger will arise, and will
be consumed by awareness.
One cannot be angry
if he is aware.
And one cannot be
greedy with awareness.
jealous with awareness.
Awareness is really
the Golden Key.
So we take a deep breath.
We choose to be in
morning day, here and now.
So everybody has paper
and pencil, by any chance?
Yes.
OK.
So living in the present
needs to be at peace.
So you always check
with yourself.
Note if you don't
have any problems,
so they are waiting for
everything to happen or solve.
You check with yourself.
Am I at peace?
Am I present?
So remember, depression
is too much of the past.
And anxiety is too
much of the future.
And your job is to bring
you back to present.
So the thank you, the I
love you, in Ho'Oponopono
brings you back to present.
And that's where
you want to live.
We talk about the this energy.
I just want you to know
that you are very special.
Maybe you want to
take a picture.
Maybe you want to do somebody
else, not Mabel Katz,
but the accountant.
But just know that
you are very special.
You are unique.
Did you know that?
You have unique talents.
Nobody can do what you
do, or how you do it.
We are all unique.
We all have unique talents.
So we are so used to
being complicated that we
reject whatever is simple.
So Ho'Oponopono is too simple.
So some of you will say,
no, it cannot be this easy.
We are so used to
unhappiness, that we
find happiness suspicious.
So how many of you think
if somebody is very happy,
you think, oh, they might
be smoking something.
Yes?
But that's our minds.
We have to recognize we are
suspicious of happiness.
So all we have to do is realize
that this should be our center.
This is our target.
That's it.
We have to do it for
the next generation.
If you have kids, if
you have grandkids,
your job is to become
happy, because they
learn from your example,
not from what you say.
So people can tell
you a lot of things.
But you observe.
Yes, we all observe.
It's easy to observe others.
It's hard to observe ourselves.
But we all can tell.
Yes so there are no lies.
It's very important to get that
backpack, the heavy backpack,
the heavy suitcase, full of
being the perfect parents,
or I have to know
it all, or something
show yourself vulnerable, show
that you are learning too.
You are doing the
best you can too.
OK.
So one of the
things to be ourself
is that you start
acting yourself.
Some people will not like it.
But it's OK, because
what is important
is what you think
of yourself, not
what other people think of you.
And everything will come.
Everything will be added.
But in life, we do the reverse.
We think we are what we have.
Oh, if I have so much
money in the bank,
if I can do this or that,
if I drive a certain car
or something.
And I think that
I am what I have.
And we live for that.
But it's the other way around,
just being ourselves, trusting
ourselves, and being present.
So do you know the difference
between talents and abilities?
Yeah, we all went to school.
I had the ability
to prepare taxes.
But talent is something natural.
You don't know where
it's coming from.
You're good at it.
People tell you, oh,
you do that so well.
And you say, oh
everybody can do it.
No, not everybody can do it.
So sometimes we don't give
ourselves enough credit.
So I'm going to take you
through an exercise that
helped me to get even more
clear about my talents.
And I would like you to just
be as natural as you can,
when you answer these questions.
So there will be four questions.
But the first three
just ask them short,
because the fourth
one is just put
in the preview of
three together;
so something that you'll
remember when I ask you this.
So first I have one
very important question
before we do this.
And I want you to write down
what the first thing that comes
without thinking.
A lot of people confuse
Ho'Oponopono, because they
think it's doing nothing.
First of all, you do a lot
when you say thank you.
OK, remember, you are
coming back to present.
You are giving
permission to God,
allowing for the help to
come, et cetera, et cetera.
And letting go is work,
because it's completely
outside of our comfort zone.
So inspiration comes.
Ho'Oponopono is about
acting from inspiration,
speaking from inspiration,
so not thinking,
being more spontaneous.
That's why we need to start
thinking as kids again.
So what is the first
thing that comes
when I ask you this question?
And again it could
be ridiculous today.
Write it down.
So what is the first thing
that comes to your mind
when I say, what would you do
even if you don't get paid,
because you love it?
It gives you so much enjoyment.
You wouldn't even
charge for doing that.
How are you going to charge for
that, if it's natural in you,
you love it, you enjoy it?
OK, and then you will
have the possibility
to share it with others.
But now it comes, because now
we are going to build on that.
So here comes the
four questions.
The first one, please write
down two talents of yours.
OK?
When you say two talents,
maybe you have more than two.
But I say write two
talents of yours.
And let me give
you some examples.
Some people sometimes
say, I don't have any.
I came late.
And there no talents left.
Being a good
listener is a talent.
Being detail-oriented
could be talent.
Organized, you can help
others, when you do this.
And I will be sharing with you
what I answer, not because I
put myself as this
great example,
but just to give
you also some more
ideas, what talents could be.
When I did this exercise, I put
that my passion and enthusiasm
are two talents of mine.
So for you to get out of
the box of what a talent is.
So the second question
is, think a way
you enjoy expressing
those talents when
you interact with others.
When you do those things,
how do you act in present
with other people?
So how do you use
those talents when
you interact with other people?
And again, make it not
too long, because then we
are going to combine them.
Really for three?
Imagine a world that
is perfect right now.
How are the people
interacting between themselves
in that perfect world?
How does it feel?
Remember, the description
is in the present
like it's happening,
and remember
perfect world is a fun
place where one likes to be
and enjoy.
So how does the perfect
world look for you,
and how to people
interact in that?
Again only just an
idea, I put that
a world where everybody
utilizes their natural talents,
and do what they love.
That for me would
be a perfect world.
Ready for the last one?
OK, the last one, this
sentence, your response
will start with "My purpose is."
And you are going to combine the
three before So my purpose is
to utilize these
talents, when I wake up
and when I interact
with other people,
and what happens in the world.
So for me it was or
is still, my purpose
is to use my passion and
enthusiasm to wake up others,
so they can discover
who they really are.
This way they can
use their natural ,
talents and do what
they love to do.
Yeah, for me it's we
just need to unlearn
to be able to relearn,
to trust ourselves,
to know we can be
ourselves, and make my money
and have everything we
need when we need it.
So when I was asked, what would
you do if you don't get paid?
I said something
very ridiculous.
OK?
And I found my notes
actually of what I wrote.
And I couldn't believe
it was my handwriting.
So when somebody asked me, I
was a tax senior accountant.
And when somebody
asked me, what would
you do even if you
don't get paid,
I wrote literally,
travel the world,
sharing with others
what had helped me.
And at that moment,
it was ridiculous.
So that's why I am telling
you, write it down.
So if today you can commit,
what is your commitment today?
That first step you
are going to take,
it has to be something
that you can do.
So what will be that first
step towards your dream,
or doing what you love.
Something that you
know, oh, that's easy.
I can do it this week.
I can do it today.
I'll do it Monday.
Yeah, not something that says,
well maybe, I can do this,
maybe I'll call, maybe I'll go.
No, no, something that
you say, oh, that's easy.
That will be my first step,
something that you commit.
Our commitment is very
important, to know why you
are doing it is very important.
And be sure you don't do
anything for money, because
of the money.
The money will always come
when you do something you love.
You don't have to worry.
The thing is that you have
to trust enough to go for it,
and know that you're not
alone, that you're not
going to do it alone.
OK?
So thank you, sorry I
don't have more time
to give you to work on this.
But hopefully you will
keep working on this.
So believe in yourself.
Trust your internal GPS.
We all have that GPS.
It should be capital.
Always live in the state
of positive expectancy,
knowing it will be coming soon,
knowing that what is coming
is always better, always.
Even when we go through
changes, it's transformation.
Growing pains sometimes, but
always when we look back,
we said thank God
that that happened.
Because maybe we
wouldn't be here today.
It's always say thank you to
what you like and thank you
to what you don't like.
Because there is a gift.
There is always a blessing
behind that you cannot
appreciate it right
now, but you will.
You will realize later,
So fly blindly.
Have no limits.
There are unknown terrains,
but the process is fascinating.
Life is fascinating.
The thing is, again,
we forgot who we are.
We forgot where our power is.
We don't have any clue
of how powerful we are.
So it's something that
maybe you realized.
Maybe you want to write it down.
In this moment I'm aware.
I will do my best
to, and I choose.
Choosing consciously, choosing
even I'm going to be happy,
no matter what.
I'm going to be at
peace, no matter what
is going on around me.
So taking that--
I'm going to take
100% responsibility.
I will let go of that
need to be right,
or to have the last word.
I will accept myself
just the way I am.
So there is a tool
that I use a lot.
On my last conference in Malaga,
there were 300 people there.
And I said, how many of you
use the I let go and trust?
Most hands went up.
I'm always telling
people, let go and trust.
Let go and trust.
Yeah, so if I have
a scary situation,
I just go I let go and
trust, I let go and trust,
I let go and trust.
I don't allow my stories
to get in the way,
and to scare me more.
So I know that my job
is just to be present,
what Buddha called
the middle way.
So we are like these trees.
We are going to be bend,
but hey, we come back.
We always come back.
So I started telling
you about the book.
So the pictures that I show
you are on my "The Easiest
Way to Grow" book that comes
with some audio and videos,
digital that we give you
access, when you buy the book.
I find that I put all the
messages of all the things
that I realized that
changed my life.
And I said, wow.
If I would have known
this when I was young,
my life would have
been very different.
But I think it's very
important we allow our kids
to be themselves, to be happy.
And then actually all
these weird stories
were in this "Maluhia,
The Happy City."
And they are really
great stories,
but based on all these weird
concepts, talking to things,
or being ourself.
So the story goes that
in this happy city,
they practice Ho'Oponopono.
And because they become
such a happy city,
tourists come to
see what they did.
How did you accomplish this?
And the tourist
guides are the kids.
So they know all these
concepts about Ho'Oponopono,
and they share it with
the tourists that come.
So it's really a wonderful
book for children and adults,
the same.
Thank you, everybody.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]